Cybersecurity is the practice of protecting and keeping an organization’s networks, devices, applications, systems, and data safe from potential cyberthreats. The goal is to fend off attacks that attempt to access or destroy data, extort money, or disrupt normal business operations–whether from within or outside the organization.

The most common types of cybersecurity threats include:

- **Social engineering attacks:** Social engineering manipulates people into revealing sensitive, confidential information for monetary gain or access to data. It includes phishing and spear phishing and can be combined with other threats to entice users to click on links, download malware, or trust a malicious source.
- **Malware attacks:** Malware is malicious software such as viruses, worms, spyware, and adware that can infect computers. Ransomware is a well-known malware that accesses and blocks files or systems to extort a ransom payment.
- **Internet of Things (IoT) attacks:** There are now more IoT devices than people in the world, and they present multiple opportunities for hackers as these devices are vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks, denial-of-service attacks (DoS), malware, permanent denial-of-service attacks (PDoS), and zero-day attacks.
- **Advanced persistent threats (APTs):** APTs are multistage attacks in which hackers infiltrate a network undetected and remain inside for a sustained time to access sensitive data or disrupt critical services. They often aim at industries with high-value information, such as national defense, manufacturing, and finance.
- **Denial-of-service (DoS) attacks:** DoS attacks, or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, happen when an attacker inundates a server or network to temporarily or indefinitely render it unavailable, usually by flooding it with traffic so that other users can’t access it. This interference can completely disrupt connected systems, causing large-scale outages and significant financial consequences due to downtime.

There is no one-size-fits-all enterprise cybersecurity solution. Instead, multiple layers of protection work together to safeguard against process disruptions and information access, change, destruction, or hold for ransom. That protection must continually evolve to counter emerging cyberthreats proactively. Multiple solutions can be integrated to create a unified defense against potential cyberattacks.

- **Application security** focuses on enhancing security when apps are in the development phase and when they are deployed. Types of application security include antivirus programs, firewalls, and encryption programs.
- **Cloud security:** The ongoing migration to private, public, and hybrid clouds means that cloud providers must continue prioritizing implementing robust, up-to-date cloud security to protect systems, data, and availability. Cloud security includes data classification, data loss prevention, encryption, and more.
- **IoT security:** With the proliferation of the IoT, there is also a proliferation of risk. While IoT security varies depending upon the device and its application, building security into devices, ensuring secure upgrades and integration, and protecting against malware are some IoT security best practices.
- **Critical infrastructure security:** The vital cyberphysical systems that our societies rely on–including electricity grids, water systems, and public health services–are vulnerable to various risks. Critical infrastructure security is deployed to protect these systems from natural disasters, physical attacks, and cyberattacks.
- **Network security:** a combination of hardware and software solutions that protect against unauthorized network access, which can result in information being intercepted, changed, or stolen. Types of network security include logins, passwords, and application security.
- **Endpoint security:** Endpoints or end-user devices–including desktops, laptops, wireless systems, and mobile devices–are all entry points for threats. Endpoint security provides antivirus and antimalware protection, IoT security, and cloud security.
- **Information security:** Information security, or InfoSec, focuses on maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an organization’s digital and analog data. Many types of information security include application security, encryption, and disaster recovery. Cybersecurity can be seen as a subset of information security; both focus on data security, but InfoSec has a broader scope.
- **Data loss prevention:** Data loss prevention (DLP) is focused on stopping sensitive data from leaving an organization–whether it is leaked intentionally or shared inadvertently. DLP technologies that track, identify, and prevent unauthorized information flow include classification, encryption, monitoring, and policy enforcement.
- **Identity and access management (IAM):**[Identity and access management systems](https://account.sap.com/core/create/register?token=eyJraWQiOiJOR0lQN19Wc0VxU2lZVENBTFZJTUdSeGs1MGciLCJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJDNTM0MDE5NCIsImVtYWlsX3ZlcmlmaWVkIjp0cnVlLCJtYWlsIjoibWljaGVsbGUubW9vcmUwMkBzYXAuY29tIiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hY2NvdW50cy5zYXAuY29tIiwibGFzdF9uYW1lIjoiTW9vcmUiLCJnaXZlbl9uYW1lIjoiTWljaGVsbGUiLCJzaWQiOiJTLVNQLTM1YTZiMDQ3LTkwODgtNDJlMi04ZjIyLTc4ODA1ZDU2ZDY1MSIsImF1ZCI6IjI0NTdjOGY0LWMwOTAtNDcyMC1hM2MwLTIyMzRlNmQ3ZmFjZiIsInNjaW1faWQiOiI3YWM0MmJjYy1iZWY4LTQ5MDctYWIyYi00OWIzOTUxMDczYzUiLCJ1c2VyX3V1aWQiOiJDNTM0MDE5NCIsImV4cCI6MTcyODkwNjI1NywiaWF0IjoxNzI4OTAyNjU3LCJmaXJzdF9uYW1lIjoiTWljaGVsbGUiLCJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSI6Ik1vb3JlIiwianRpIjoiNWM4ZmI3NjItMjc2MC00NGVjLWFjMGMtMzAwMjgzYjNiMmE0IiwiZW1haWwiOiJtaWNoZWxsZS5tb29yZTAyQHNhcC5jb20ifQ.Z9Gva6pOAo3mqWy57Zf7A92SxYZhu620Uqj90eEhrDoQYmeiChkFx1L6UUv51iwCS3zP5lOsOa6zk1CHPDmyvlvzf7LnBo7ubn8N1ISH2uBko0LxnC8gHJSicohYIi27J5noN6WdyInQ2a4sYoDK6hqbsOnjOIDN7gff0vZraO7HQ59WfnVnRnwFpHL5i81C-dQmNS4dihmPLk9VVZ4koViIVd6MHeYdKdcagWt5Y_udc86tzI0DxxT-fCqeTXS2LEUkXNYptQ3KWU6RKKQjkU1owrfhCc_gNcRINdQUEs-tzssMNYmWdkv1j_lG5pubhtQu_QEyC3dlSd1FCgkJoA&redirectURL=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.sap.com%2Fbin%2Fsapdx%2Fauth2.json%3FredirectURL%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.sap.com%252Fproducts%252Ffinancial-management%252Fcloud-iam.html%26idsSpName%3Dsapdx)—including two-factor authentication, multifactor authentication, privileged access management, and biometrics—help organizations control user access to critical information and systems On-Premise and in the cloud.
- **Security information and event management (SIEM):**[Modern SIEM solutions](https://account.sap.com/core/create/register?token=eyJraWQiOiJOR0lQN19Wc0VxU2lZVENBTFZJTUdSeGs1MGciLCJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.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.Z9Gva6pOAo3mqWy57Zf7A92SxYZhu620Uqj90eEhrDoQYmeiChkFx1L6UUv51iwCS3zP5lOsOa6zk1CHPDmyvlvzf7LnBo7ubn8N1ISH2uBko0LxnC8gHJSicohYIi27J5noN6WdyInQ2a4sYoDK6hqbsOnjOIDN7gff0vZraO7HQ59WfnVnRnwFpHL5i81C-dQmNS4dihmPLk9VVZ4koViIVd6MHeYdKdcagWt5Y_udc86tzI0DxxT-fCqeTXS2LEUkXNYptQ3KWU6RKKQjkU1owrfhCc_gNcRINdQUEs-tzssMNYmWdkv1j_lG5pubhtQu_QEyC3dlSd1FCgkJoA&redirectURL=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.sap.com%2Fbin%2Fsapdx%2Fauth2.json%3FredirectURL%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.sap.com%252Fproducts%252Ffinancial-management%252Fenterprise-threat-detection.html%26idsSpName%3Dsapdx) monitor and analyze security data and events in real time, helping organizations detect and respond to cyberthreats before they can disrupt business operations. Using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine learning, SIEM offers advanced user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) to stay on top of ever-evolving threats.
- **Cybersecurity awareness training:** End-users are the first line of defense against cyberattacks and the weakest link in the cybersecurity chain, so phishing remains a prevalent cyberthreat. It’s estimated that human behavior causes as many as [90% of cyberattacks](https://chiefexecutive.net/almost-90-cyber-attacks-caused-human-error-behavior/), so continually educating your end-users on cybersecurity initiatives to support them in making intelligent cyberdefense choices is crucial. If people fall for phishing scams, use weak passwords, and work on unsecured networks, they are open to exploitation. As hybrid/remote working looks to be the norm in the future, remote workers continue to be targeted by bad actors.

SIEM stands for **Security Information and Event Management**, a type of security software that provides real-time analysis of security alerts generated by the network hardware and applications. SIEM collects, aggregates, and analyzes security data from various sources, including logs, alerts, and traffic data. Its primary purpose is to help organizations detect and respond to security threats promptly and effectively.